Now that we have what we believe are the items for the next sprint,
let's estimate or re-estimate the items in the list since some
of these items may have been estimated in the previous sprint
or release planning exercises, and things have changed.
So we want to take our sprint 2 backlog and discuss each item or story.
While you are discussing the items,
ask and listen to your team's expert opinions.
Experts have experience, intuition, and just plain gut feel.
Also, try to use analogies.
What I mean by that, try having the discussions incorporate comparisons,
parallels, and contrasts.
Strive for team consensus for each estimate.
Everyone does not have to be at the same estimate value,
but close enough to move forward.
To ensure that the discussion is structured,
use a timebox of 5 minutes, or just say at 10 A.M.
we will cease and go with what we have.
Estimates do not need to be perfect per se, just jointly agreed to if possible.
Perform a feature or user story decomposition if necessary.
Splitting a feature into smaller, easier to understand,
and, therefore, easier to estimate, now estimate those smaller user stories,
and make sure they are accounted for in the backlog.
Now that we know the environment by which we want to create these estimates,
let's go make them.
Now let's look at our estimation results in step 2.
Each item in the backlog may already have an estimate from previous discussions.
In fact, it is quite likely.
But as we have learned about Agile,
we are always making course corrections as needed.
So we see here that for user stories 1 and 2 we have
estimates 12 and 5 respectively,
and story 7 is new and has not been estimated before.
We now at this point in the project may have learned so much about the
business domains and our estimation skills may have improved,
so we re-estimate the three user stories.
In this example, we have re-estimated story 1 to 10,
and story 2 to 12, and the newly estimated story 7 at 22 points.
So for our sprint, we have user story 1,
2, and 7, and we have estimated the story points as 10,
12, and 22 respectively.
Now for a point of view.
There is a lot of discussion out there on the value of story points
verses hours and a lot of misunderstandings as well,
so let's talk about a few of those.
No correlation with skills and experience of the estimator.
As we already mentioned,
the specialist who estimates a task isn't always the one who implements it.
Senior and junior developers need different amounts
of time to complete the same task.
The only way to avoid all this is to make a developer who estimates a
project also be the one who implements that project.
That usually doesn't always happen.
Story points eliminate this problem because they are a
universal measurement across the whole team.
The estimate doesn't depend on who's implementing the story.
All team members with different skill levels can discuss it
together and come to a single conclusion.
The whole team can get a clear understanding of the story size and complexity.
This is probably the main advantage of story points.
Velocity is tracked.
Another key to the power of story points estimation is velocity.
Velocity is a powerful capacity planning method that demonstrates
how much product backlog effort a software development team can
successfully handle in one sprint.
The goal of a team is to raise its Team members discuss ways to achieve
greater velocity during retrospectives after each sprint.
The higher the team's velocity,
the higher the team's capacity to perform a given
task quicker and more efficiently.
But velocity is a relative value that can change during the course of a project.
And here we find the next advantage.
You will not need to re-estimate your user stories,
features, or you project if the velocity changes,
whereas estimated in man hours would require you to
perform probably a recalculation.
No re-estimation if velocity changes.
Another value of story points is that they let you re-plan
product release deadlines without re-estimating all the tasks
if members of a team are changed.
It often happens that one person estimates a project,
but another completes the task.
In this case, story points are indispensible.
And lastly, do not equate hours to points.
Story points are helpful because they allow team members who perform at
different speeds to communicate an estimate collaboratively.
If two developers estimate a story as one point,
yet in their own minds they might be thinking about 5
hours and the other developer say 7 hours,
starting with that estimate of 1 point,
they can then agree to estimate something as say 2 points.
If each agree, it'll take twice as long as the first story. Now, let's move on to the next part of sprint planning.